Linux-4-Kids: A Web-based Guided Learning Platform
Members: Alexis Engelvin-Grezes, David Wasilko, Jacob Samar, and Russell Derby

Introduction 
	In today’s technological world, the vast majority of personal computers run some version of either Windows or macOS. Yet millions of servers that provide service to a large percentage of the internet, along with every Android device and a whole host of other SMART consumer products, are being run by Linux-based operating systems behind the scenes. The reason for this is simple. Linux, unlike many of its more popular counterparts, favors control over consumer-friendliness. Practically every layer of this open-source OS can be stripped out, modified, replaced, and rebuilt. This makes it an extremely powerful tool, with the opportunity to be used by countless individuals in countless ways. It also means a lot of consumers are more likely to be intimidated by the wide variety of options they face, and instead turn to easier and more well-known systems. This is a natural consequence of a complex tool like Linux, and it requires education to see to it that people feel confident and capable in their abilities to use it.
Whether its due to the plasticity of the young mind, or simply having more time to learn and explore, children have proven to have the ability to learn skills and languages faster than adults. Their natural curiosity and creativity puts them at the perfect point in life to suck up new ideas like a sponge. And in the 21st century, computer programming is increasingly becoming a part of basic literacy and is needed to solve problems in every sector of society. The sooner we start to educate our children on these topics, the more likely they are to pick them up and find new and interesting ways to use them in the future. Currently, most people’s first introduction to Linux is in college or the workforce, long after the most rapid periods of mental growth. We believe that young people have the ability to utilize the operating system and other similar tools far earlier than that. 

Our Proposed Solution
	Linux-4-Kids, is a website that offers an easily accessible environment for a fun and engaging introduction to Linux. The web-based platform will guide kids through exciting educational courses, which cover the high-level usage of the operating system as well as the software commonly associated with it. Linux-4-Kids will be easily access from any internet connected device, with user accounts that can be signed into from anywhere to allow syncing of progress across any platform. Providing the service through a web-based platform will allow the most young people to make use of the educational opportunity, avoiding any issues of operating system compatibility or download permissions. 
Our students will follow a detective character as they explore and progress through different topics and lessons about Linux. Various mysteries and quests will keep them intrigued, while a character guide will enhance the appeal of our educational website by providing narrative and a relatable human aspect to the experience. We hope to use these qualities to increase their attentiveness, and increase the amount of time before their focus wears. Because children learn best through play, mini-games will be used throughout the sections to reinforce learning objectives. Similarly, gamification of the assessment and reward systems will help children stay motivated, while still allowing progress to be tracked and reported. Learning Linux can be fun and games are a great educational tool to turn something tedious into something engaging. 

Lesson Content
	The first lesson for users of Linux-4-Kids will be a section about operating systems in general, with a breakdown of the differences between the most common ones. Explaining in very simple terms what an operating system is, in terms of the system layers, will give provide the start to the demystification of the computer. Learning about the very basics of operating systems then leads to the ability to explore many other important lessons and interesting topics such as memory, storage, processes, languages, and hardware. 
	Once the introductory lesson is finished, the course will cover briefly the variety of Linux distributions which exist to explore. Users will move on from that, to focus on some of the more general topics which are relevant to the majority of the distros. For example, Linux offers thousands of great software titles, which students need to know how to find, install, and use. This section is a vital building block, and will help familiarize students with the Linux environment. Many students will have prior experience with Windows or Macintosh environments, and installing software on Linux can be very different and sometimes will be more difficult. In addition to the installation process, we will have the option to more thoroughly explore lessons on some of the most common of these programs.
	One of the most important as well as challenging topics that we hope to cover is the Command Line. It is a powerful text-based interface which can do almost anything in Linux, and provides the user with the most intimate usage of the system. Because it is central to the Linux OS, students would only scratch the surface of Linux without proficiency at the command line. Possibilities of topics to learn about in this section are almost endless, and the topics covered will likely be specific and targeted programs over the most useful commands. Young Linux students will likely begin with explanation of what a shell is, how to manipulate files, and directory structure. These command line lessons will largely involve a lot of practice and hands-on work, so that the more difficult lessons can be more thoroughly absorbed.
	Extra content, time permitting, would be provided as side lessons about the history of Linux, the kernel, and the growth of various Linux operating systems. Despite being over twenty years old, students would benefit to understand more deeply the steps that it took to get Linux to where it is today. And they may be very intrigued to learn of the various ways that Linux is used in mobile applications, cloud computing, server environments, and various other environments.


Customer Value
	The Linux-4-Kids platform will be designed to engage and educate children between the ages of 8 and 14. We believe that our goal of giving children an early start with Linux is best achieved in this age range, as most of these users will be comfortable with reading and following on-screen instructions. Children on the younger end of the range may be benefitted by working through the activities with an adult to assist them. Past the upper end of our age range children will still be perfectly capable of learning valuable material from our site; however, they may not be as engaged by the pace or thematic elements. Because of the young age of our target audience, we expect that the majority of our users will be early beginners on the topics that we will present. As such, our core focus will be on providing lessons and activities for users who have little-to-no prior knowledge on Linux. We will aim to work the users progressively through increasingly complex topics, in an effort to get them exploring even more advanced topics on their own.
	Children are very receptive to new ideas and information. They can be quickly enraptured by something new, and are more prone to run with a new system than adults. This makes them perfect students, in a way. The challenge comes in the form of making these new ideas appealing enough that you can tap into this childlike wonder. Children want to play games, see exciting new phenomena, and to feel like they are actively participating in something. They do not want to read product manuals or watch a videos of a professor lecturing for hours. When a child truly engages as a student, it’s because they find the material to be exciting and important. If a child doesn’t play an active role in their learning, through fun and purposeful content and activities, it can be very easy to lose their attention to something that does absorb them. We want to provide educational material that utilizes this understanding of childhood learning, to try to impact the lack of common knowledge regarding Linux and its capabilities in a lasting way for years to come. 

Existing Work
	As a result of the open-source nature of Linux, there is a huge body of informational sources in many forms and from numerous organizations, which all contribute to the worldwide community of Linux users. There are websites, books, forums, and even Linux distributions designed entirely for learning. The Linux Foundation, a non-profit which founded in a commitment to standardizing and growing Linux, offers an “official” video course to serve as an introduction. Similarly, LinuxJourney.com and LinuxSurvival.com offer multiple lessons, with quizzes and hands-on activities for a wide range of topics. Edubuntu, Sugar on a Stick, and Debian Edu are some popular versions of the many community-made Linux distributions which are made entirely to educate their users on how to use Linux-based systems.
	Due to this wide body of knowledge that is already out there, it is impossible for us to deliver introductory content that is not going to overlap in some way with many other previously-existing programs. Yet, despite the fact that the number of resources is a non-issue, there exists a wide gap in the knowhow of a large percentage of average computer users. This is why our product will focus on perfecting qualities such as ease-of-access, level of engagement, and mental accessibility. Open-sourced products are all about working together as a community to do something great. And in a similar spirit, we seek to build upon the endeavors of others and contribute to the adoption of Linux-based operating systems into more mainstream consumer spaces. By addressing the younger generation, we hope to have a more long lasting impact that continues to spread through the spark it ignited.


Measures of Success
	Obviously for our program to have the impact we wish, the more children who are using it the better. But beyond the number of users, the amount of time spent on the site per user is going to be the more important metric for determining if we are achieving our goals. We are seeking to create engaged learners, who want to continue to advance their education, and continued participation in the program is the surest sign we may have that any influence is there. In the long-term, the truest measure of our success would be to see a noticeable increase in the popular usage of Linux-based systems, as well as the continued growth of the community surrounding it.

Proposed Solution and Technology	
	The goal of this project would be to create a full-fledged website. This entails several different tools that we will have to acquaint ourselves with and work to form into a seamless project. We will need a front-end framework to create the user interface, a database with an accompanying language to manage user data, and a hosting platform to publish our website on when we finish. Optionally, but highly encouraged, will be some tools applied to our github repo to ensure quality code and to reduce the grunt work of managing this project. 
	For the front-end, our initial plan is to use the React.js framework. React is a component-based framework. What this means is we can create generalized individual elements, such as an user input box. We would code this component only a single time and then we could use it throughout our site wherever we needed to take in user input. This prevents having to recreate the wheel everytime we needed such a field. Therefore, our goal while creating this website should be to design all of our front interface in a way that we can apply each part we code to multiple different areas. This requires us take a moment and think before we even put our hands to keyboards and isolate every possible element into its simplest and most adaptable form. Also, given the short time frame we have to complete this project, we will be taking advantage of the many UI libraries that already exist for React. These contain pre-created components that most websites contain, such as sidebars, search fields, and user input fields. We hope to adapt these pre-created elements and our own custom ones to design a website that is uniquely ours. 
	Our backend will be a simple MongoDB database and accompanying Python code to access and manipulate it. If we go down this path we will be working with the NoSQL language which provides less strict requirements on how we store, access, and change our information. Given what we know now, the only information we would need to store would be user logins and their accompanying saved progress through our tutorial/game. In particular because our users will be largely made up of children, we have no need or desire to collect any kind of identifying information beyond a created username. 
	The next logical step in our project would be how to host both our front-end and backend. Our initial research shows that it will likely be possible to have our front-end React hosted through github and then our backend through a service such as Heroku or Amazon AWS. This seems to be the area where our team is least experienced so finding the best combination of technologies will be something that may have to go through several iterations. 
	Since there are several different parts to our project anything that can be done to make our work easier will help our process greatly. With that in mind, we hope to get an automation software, Jenkins, up and running on Github. Our workflow will likely be making a branch of our repo, creating our changes, and then creating a pull request to master from that branch. Jenkins will come into play during the pull request. At the very least we want to have a static code analysis performed on every PR to catch easy gotchas that would otherwise be left to the PR reviewer to spend time searching for (The most likely candidate for this analysis would be through a SonarQube plugin). Our more ambitious goal would be to have a service hook that would clone our repo whenever a change was made to master and deploy it to a test server where each team member has access to view. This would make it easier for us to see changes immediately and free up more time that we can spend productively working on the project. 


Our Team
	Our team is made of a group of diverse talents and interest, with a shared desire to make a contribution to society through education of the youth. While most of us our new to an endeavor such as this, we are all excited to learn the skills we need to achieve our goal. Below are the names and experience of each of the members of our group:

Alexis Engelvin-Grezes
“I have experience with Java & C++. I do not have experience with the tools we will be using but am excited to learn.”
David Wasilko
“I am an intern at the ORNL Spallation Neutron Source. Most of my work is hands-on (building and testing RF electrical circuits), but I also use Python and Matlab for design and control of those systems. I do not have any experience with web development, but I enjoy working on visually creative projects.”
Jacob Samar
“I have worked at the Knoxville Utilities Board (KUB) for the last year as a web developer intern. Therefore, I have a decent amount of experience front-end and back-end development, using automation tools, and understanding proper conventions to follow in order to collaborate effectively on a project.”
Russell Derby
“I currently am working in training at a retail company called Altar’d State. I am learning how to develop HTML-based training programs there, and hope to apply that foundational knowledge here. I also have experience programming in C++ and Javascript. I’m excited for the opportunity to work with this team and gain some experience.”

Project Management 
	Our plan for our project development is to break our objective tasks into three distinct development stages. By planning out our steps carefully, and following the guide that we lay for ourselves, we hope to efficiently and effectively achieve the results that we’ve set out to get.

Stage 1: 
Research and finalize decisions on the platforms we will use to build the website
Create a functional first draft of the website 
Develop an outline for the content of the website 
Stage 2:
Receive feedback on the website
Format the website based on feedback & build up the content of the website
Improve the visual elements of the design
Implement user profiles and storage
Stage 3:
Finalize the website and its content
Add more features and programs if time permits
	We believe that it is feasible to complete the project on time by meeting regularly and keeping up with the milestones we set. In order to make sure that we have a functioning project by the deadline, we will be working with a minimally viable product in mind. After we have laid the groundwork, we will focus on building up the style and content. The sooner we have our site functioning fully, the more time we will have to develop lessons.

Constraints 
	The main legal concern for this project would be ensuring that there is no copyright infringement with the graphics or art that we may need to use. Also, the material used to create the educational content of the website must be cited correctly as well as all usage agreements followed. As far as time constraints, it is unlikely that we will be able to full cover the scope of knowledge that we would wish in the 3 months we have to develop. We will be working to cover as much as we can within that time frame.

